---
layout: post
title:  "Today I had a bad day."
date:   2018-11-07 13:50:39
categories: Articles
---

Today I had a bad day at work - how recognizing your feelings and doing something about them can save you from having one 

I followed my daily plan routine, I knew my goals, I had the game plan of the day on my head early in the morning as usual, but for some reason something didn’t feel right. 

I could not focus well and I was kind of grumpier than usual and I was going through my usual activities with people and teams I am coaching, without anything out of the normal, but somehow I had a strange feeling, that later I recognized as some level of frustration.

I had an important meeting right after lunch time. I got prepared for this, since yesterday, kind of mentally rehearsing the conversation, as at the end, what I needed there was to "sell" myself, my experience as enterprise agile coach and convince I know what I was talking about to a Senior Manager that was interested to "hire" my services to another group.

But I today was not my day. The meeting was terrible, I was very far from my potential - to really show my best - and when It was over I knew I had not given the right impression of myself and my idea. I kind of knew it was bad. 

Just after it, without too much time to think about it, I got embedded in a "go and see" ( or "Gemba") situation of an impediment from a team I am coaching, which I was trying to help with their DevOps pipeline. This absorbed my last 2 hours of the day where, without patience and still thinking how bad it was the previous meeting, I could not understand why the team was taking so long to decide on a strategy to move on with so clear choices: why that "Gemba" was taking so long?? Came on, you have all the data, its on your range to take this decision, so them why don’t you do it? I kept asking myself this, even after 60+ minutes discussing with the team leads. 

At the end I understand the problem was not them not taking the decision. They were looking for some advice and feedback from me, but I was on a bad emotionally day. After 2+ hours we started our observations and discussions, we finalize the “go and see” and defined the plan to solve the issue. Much longer than should be and we are use to do. 

After all that, I was going home, reflecting about the day and trying to understand why everything was as it was today. I realized that I knew it could be a bad day since the early morning, when I was not with the right emotions to start at. I should have recognized that and, either have done something to change my feelings and be “back on track” emotionally, or stepped back and re planed the activities for today to happen in another day when I had my mind in place.

I have not done it, and now I have to rework some stuff tomorrow - the worst kind of waste I keep saying to teams I work with to avoid and minimize - and worst, have to work much harder to try to get another opportunity to sell to Senior Management from other group that I know what I am doing as enterprise coach and that I could do for them as well - maybe his chance will never come back.

As says the TV commercial : "Now I know and now you know" - recognizing our own feelings and assess if they match the expected feelings to tackle some situation, before you tackle it, is one of the signs of emotional intelligence, and that can save you for having a "bad day" or waste a opportunity to cause a good impression.