---
layout: post
title:  "Give a man a fish, he eats for a day. Teach a man how to fish, he eats for a lifetime"
date:   2019-09-12 13:50:39
categories: Articles
---


I guess by nature, I always have being a fan of evolving from real experiences. Learning from the trenches and trying different things. This is the way I naturally think when I need to develop a new skill, change some habit or evolve towards the desired state in many situations. 

Even before being knowledgeable on continuous improvement concepts and principles like the improvement kata, fast feedback loops, continuous learning thought experimentation and on lean practices as well, I had this approach inside me.

For this article, I will be calling revolutionary the traditional approach to transforming which in essence consists of having some sort of expert external to the group target in the transformation to measure how you doing and practices. Then, with this info in hand, do a diagnosis on the maturity level and a plan to improve. This plan comes with a manual of practices or description of how the new behavior might be, like the implementation of SAFe or even in the simplest form of Scrum. 

It typically comes with a defined plan like a project: with defined roles and responsibilities, actions and must do’s. To implement all this, usually, its used the most common form of disseminating knowledge: training to implement the new process. You train people, the entire department on how they should behave. After it, if they really get it, your expectations are that they start to behave like it because you were able to show all the advantages and for them.

I call it revolutionary because for the group under transformation sounds like a revolution which expects you change the wrong way you do things today to the right way it should be done directly, with the new learning. In this case, you are giving a man a fish.

And the results of giving the fish we know : even if everyone starts to do their big room planning, define and train the Release trains, have their sprint planning, their daily meetings, their retros and so on, the result at the end does not last and is limited to the size of fish you gave. Or even worst, maybe you don't even see the real difference in quality and business agility promised in the beginning.

So, then, what would be teaching a man how to fish in this case? This is what I define with an evolutionary way to approach improvement and developing new skills and behavior: Start by providing a North Star, direction, vision or any name you want to give to the group have their view of the nirvana. Present what kind of results you want to have. Show them what is to have the fish in their hands fresh from water to their pan. Provide them purpose! Building mastery of a subject by really understanding it, builds intrinsic motivation.

Once the team can visualize the goal, show them how teams would measure their progress up to by actually catching the fish. Help them understand what are the KPIs, and the demonstrable evidence that they need to validate they are on the right way.

Finally, you can provide some sort of tools and practices that they can experiment with, from your experience toolbox which they can use to archive those levels. Present the tools demonstrating how and why they align to the purpose and the north.

Ultimately, the difference is that instead of you provide a plan and roadmap, you let the team design and evolve at their own pace. This will build accountability with the change, less resistance and mainly long-lasting values that will not be limited to getting one fish, but that will give them the change to start getting bigger and better fishes in the future on their own.

Some teaching and some frameworks can be used and presented, but not as a mechanic way to do things, but as part of the experiment always with the eyes with the metrics and results to visualize the progress towards the north.

The statement: “start from what you know and evolve with small experiments leading to improvements validated with metrics towards intermediary next target condition, in periodic cycles that take you to idea state” incorporates everything that sees missing on the traditional revolutionary approach, keeping the good things about it.

This is for me an approach not just for agile transformation, but also for many kinds of endeavors we take in our lives that required grown and evolution to reach a goal.

 It sounds so natural for me. Does it sound to you too?

Happy fishing!!