---
layout: post
title:  "Building a high-performing team: Hangouts"
date:   2020-01-05 13:50:39
categories: Team_Building_Playbook
---

Play: Building a high-performing team: Hangouts
===============================================

What is it:
-----------

We don’t think we need to tell you the benefits of having fun, but what about
playing at work? [Recent studies] (https://www.psychologicalscience.org/news/minds-business/playing-up-the-benefits-of-play-at-work.html) have begun to establish that there are numerous benefits to having fun at work to include: less fatigue, less
boredom, a natural way to manage stress. It can also - ultimately lead to better trust
amongst a team. In this play, we give you a few examples of ways to hangout and create
more play in your work, and drive employee engagement and team happiness to new levels.

When to use it:
---------------

-   Newly formed team (Storming/Forming stages). Consistently hanging out
    creates a level of team trust.

-   Any team in need of improvement with clear dysfunctions. Building team trust
    is a step that can be missed.

-   Team that has a lot of “I’s.” Hanging out helps provide open, transparent,
    and builds trust, which are key for aligning towards the team’s goal.

Expected outcomes:
------------------

A team that is using open dialog and supportive confrontation effectively will
exhibit the following characteristics:

-   Members of the team approach all of their interactions with each other with
    **kindness, consideration, empathy and respect**.

-   Members of the team will exhibit a high degree of collaboration.

-   Members of the team will collaborate more closely and shower higher
    engagement.

-   The team will be aligned towards their goals and achieve higher productivity
    and happiness.

>   Pro tip: We really don’t know how to have fun better than you and your team.
>   Be creative here!

How to execute it:
------------------

-   [Parallel Play: Team Health
    Check](../The%20Team/2020-02-01-TeamHealthCheck.md)

-   Recommend Initial Time: Depends on activity.

-   Recommended Update: Once a quarter minimum.

-   Difficult level 1/5 to do consistently as a team.

### Hangouts play

Our brains are wired to seek out pleasure and avoid pain. One way to do this is by playing.
Dopamine, also known as the “pleasure chemical” is released though the act of
playing, such as this [recent
study] (https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-compass-pleasure/201110/video-games-can-activate-the-brains-pleasure-circuits-0)
of video game playing and the release of dopamine. To create situations like
these, teams need to create opportunities to have fun, laugh together, and
create their own social interactions to increase the team’s trust and bonding
levels.

While there isn’t one specific way of doing this, as every team will share
various interests, here are some ideas.

It is recommended that you schedule an activity on a recurring basis, as it’s
quite easy to get caught up and ignore this activity. That said, unexpected
rewards and surprises trigger a higher dopamine release than expected rewards,
so unplanned activities are also recommended.

Please feel free to add the fun things your team does together to the ideas
below:

Some ideas:

1.  Team events at an Escape Room

2.  Team lunches

3.  Team dinners

4.  Team pot-lucks or team cooking contents

5.  Monthly celebrations

6.  Go-live parties and events

7.  Volunteering together

8.  Happy Hours

9.  Family picnics

10. Trivia games

11. Team created Inside jokes

12. Classic video game high-scores
